=head1 NAME

virtfs-proxy-helper - QEMU 9p virtfs proxy filesystem helper

=head1 SYNOPSIS

usage: virtfs-proxy-helper options

=head1 DESCRIPTION


=over 4

Pass-through security model in QEMU 9p server needs root privilege to do
few file operations (like chown, chmod to any mode/uid:gid).  There are two
issues in pass-through security model

1) TOCTTOU vulnerability: Following symbolic links in the server could
provide access to files beyond 9p export path.

2) Running QEMU with root privilege could be a security issue.

To overcome above issues, following approach is used: A new filesytem
type 'proxy' is introduced. Proxy FS uses chroot + socket combination
for securing the vulnerability known with following symbolic links.
Intention of adding a new filesystem type is to allow qemu to run
in non-root mode, but doing privileged operations using socket IO.

Proxy helper(a stand alone binary part of qemu) is invoked with
root privileges. Proxy helper chroots into 9p export path and creates
a socket pair or a named socket based on the command line parameter.
Qemu and proxy helper communicate using this socket. QEMU proxy fs
driver sends filesystem request to proxy helper and receives the
response from it.

Proxy helper is designed so that it can drop the root privilege with
retaining capbilities needed for doing filesystem operations only.


=back


=head1 OPTIONS

The following options are supported:

=over 4


=item B<-h>

Display help and exit

=item B<-p|--path path>

Path to export for proxy filesystem driver

=item B<-f|--fd socket-id>

Use given file descriptor as socket descriptor for communicating with
qemu proxy fs drier. Usually a helper like libvirt will create
socketpair and pass one of the fds as parameter to -f|--fd

=item B<-s|--socket socket-file>

Creates named socket file for communicating with qemu proxy fs driver

=item B<-u|--uid uid -g|--gid gid>

uid:gid combination to give access to named socket file

=item B<-n|--nodaemon>

Run as a normal program. By default program will run in daemon mode

=back


=head1 AUTHOR

M. Mohan Kumar

